---
layout: product
type: report
title: "SNAPshot: Who Benefits from Food Stamps in Texas"
summary: |
  Who benefits from food stamps in Texas? When it comes down to it, we all do. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, aka food stamps) is our nation’s front- line defense against hunger.
media:
  image:
  map:
  timeline:
downloads: 
  - title: PDF
    file: SNAPshot.pdf
  - title:
    file: 
date: 2013-08-16 11:50:37
categories: 
  - Food Insecurity
featured: "true"
---
Who benefits from food stamps in Texas?

When it comes down to it, we all do. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, aka food stamps) is our nation’s front- line defense against hunger. As this report shows, SNAP helps the most vulnerable and deserving Texans put food on the family table.

In today’s rocky economy, we all know neighbors in need. These neighbors are the driving force behind the recent growth in SNAP.

In light of such need, proposals in Congress to slash funding or otherwise hobble SNAP are as short-sighted as they are misinformed. SNAP makes our children healthier and our nation stronger. Keeping this program strong is the smart thing as well as the moral thing to do.

SNAP’s only shortcoming is its inability to reach everyone who needs it. Our analysis shows that one-third of Texans may be eligible, but are not receiving SNAP, costing our state more than $3 Billion in annual federal aid. Despite recent participation growth, error and fraud rates within the program are at historic lows.

These numbers put the lie to claims that SNAP is over-used or subject to massive fraud. Critics of SNAP should stop blaming poor people for their problems, or SNAP for the nation’s problems. Americans are understandably concerned about the deficit. But cutting SNAP won’t fix that problem, and would undermine one of the most important tools we have to help low-income Americans get back on their feet during tough economic times.